README.md, before:

# Skity

`Skity` is an open-source 2D graphics library written in `c++` using [OpenGL](https://www.opengl.org) and [Vulkan (Experimental)](https://www.vulkan.org/) as backend.
Its **API** follows the same pattern as [Skia](https://skia.org/) and implements the rendering by myself. <br/>

![MacOS|build](https://github.com/RuiwenTang/Skity/actions/workflows/macos.yml/badge.svg)
![Windows|build](https://github.com/RuiwenTang/Skity/actions/workflows/windows.yml/badge.svg)
![Android|build](https://github.com/RuiwenTang/Skity/actions/workflows/android.yml/badge.svg)
[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/ruiwentang/skity/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/ruiwentang/skity)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Screen Shots

| [Just like nanovg](./example/frame_example.cc)       | [SVG render](./example/svg_example.cc)          | [Basic Example](./example/example.cc)             | [Android Porting](https://github.com/RuiwenTang/Skity-Android)                                                                   |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="./resources/nanovg_demo.png" width="200" > | <img src="./resources/tiger.png" width="150" /> | <img src="./resources/skia_demo.png" width="180"> | <img src="https://github.com/RuiwenTang/Skity-Android/blob/main/screen_shots/gl_frame_example_android.png?raw=true" width="200"> |

| [Blur filter example](./example/filter_example.cc)       | [NanoGUI Porting](https://github.com/RuiwenTang/nanogui) |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="./resources/filter_example.png" width="180" /> | <img src="./resources/nanogui_demo.gif" width="200" />   |

## Quick Start

### Build and Install

#### Option A: Build from source

##### Requirements

- CMake
- [Freetype](https://www.freetype.org/): If not present, font rendering will not working
- [GLFW](https://www.glfw.org/): for build test and example
- optional
  - [libpng](http://www.libpng.org/pub/png/libpng.html): for png file decode
  - [libjpeg-turbo](https://www.libjpeg-turbo.org/): for jpg file decode
  - on windows ,need to set environment value: `JPEG_PREFIX=path to libjpeg installed directory`

```shell
# fetch sources from github
git clone --recursive https://github.com/RuiwenTang/Skity.git
cd Skity
# Create build directory
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make
make install
```

#### Option B: Using [`vcpkg`](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg)

The port config is located in [vcpkg-skity](https://github.com/RuiwenTang/vcpkg-skity).

##### Using [manifest mode](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg/blob/master/docs/users/manifests.md)

Add the following registry info to vcpkg-configuration.json as a git [registry](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg/blob/master/docs/users/registries.md):

```
{
  "default-registry": {
      "kind": "git",
      "repository": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg.git",
      "baseline": "82e03905f54fc49d11346e5148e3860747604d86"
  },
  "registries": [
    {
      "kind": "git",
      "repository": "https://github.com/RuiwenTang/vcpkg-skity.git",
      "baseline": "8223a29413aaa1869e6d106d341eaf90ddf7ca47",
      "packages": [ "skity" ]
    }
  ]
}
```

And then add `skity` to vcpkg.json as a dependency:

```
{
  "name": "my-application",
  "version-string": "0.1.0",
  "dependencies": [
    "skity"
  ]
}
```

##### Using overlay-ports

Clone [vcpkg-skity repo](https://github.com/RuiwenTang/vcpkg-skity) and pass a [port-overlay](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg/blob/master/docs/specifications/ports-overlay.md) to vcpkg:

```
vcpkg install skity --overlay-ports=/path/to/vcpkg-skity/ports/skity
```

#### Linking in CMake

In CMakeLists.txt, find and link skity:

```
find_package(skity CONFIG REQUIRED)
target_link_library(main skity::skity)
```

### Initialization

The code below shows how to create a `skity::Canvas` instance using [GLFW](https://www.glfw.org/) with OpenGL backend. The full code can look at [gl_app.cc](./example/gl/gl_app.cc)

```c++
GLFWwindow* window = glfwCreateWindow(800, 600, "Demo", nullptr, nullptr);

int32_t pp_width, pp_height;
glfwGetFramebufferSize(window_, &pp_width, &pp_height);

float density = (float)(pp_width * pp_width + pp_height * pp_height) /
                  (float)(800 * 800 + 600 * 600);

skity::GPUContext ctx{skity::GPUBackendType::kOpenGL, (void*) glfwGetProcAddress};

auto canvas = skity::Canvas::MakeHardwareAccelationCanvas(800, 600, density, &ctx);
```

### Drawing Path

```c++
// paint controls the color and style when geometry is rendered
skity::Paint paint;
paint.setStyle(skity::Paint::kFill_Style);
paint.setColor(skity::ColorSetRGB(0x42, 0x85, 0xF4));

// create path
skity::Path path;
path.moveTo(199, 34);
path.lineTo(253, 143);
path.lineTo(374, 160);
path.lineTo(287, 244);
path.lineTo(307, 365);
path.lineTo(199, 309);
path.lineTo(97, 365);
path.lineTo(112, 245);
path.lineTo(26, 161);
path.lineTo(146, 143);
path.close();

canvas->drawPath(path, paint);
```

The code generates the following result:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/RuiwenTang/Skity/blob/gh-pages/images/fill_star.png?raw=true" width="300" />
</p>

### Blur Effect

By using [`MaskFilter`](./include/skity/effect/mask_filter.hpp), can make some **Post-processing** effect, currently only support [Blur](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blur) effect.

```c++
paint.setMaskFilter(
      skity::MaskFilter::MakeBlur(skity::BlurStyle::kNormal, 10.f));

canvas->drawPath(path /* previouse created star path */, paint);

```

<p align="center">
  <img src="./resources/blur_star.png"  width="300"/>
</p>

## Build

### Third party dependencies

- [glad](https://glad.dav1d.de/)
  Uesd in example for OpenGL context creation
- [glm](https://github.com/g-truc/glm.git)
  Used in this library for all geometric mathematical claculations
- [gtest](https://github.com/google/googletest.git)
  Used in test for some unit test only used when build for debug
- [pugixml](https://github.com/zeux/pugixml.git)
  Used in this library for xml parse when drawing svg image.
- [spdlog](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog.git)
  Used in this library for logging. (Optional can trun off by setting `ENABLE_LOG=OFF`)
- [VulkanMemoryAllocator](https://github.com/GPUOpen-LibrariesAndSDKs/VulkanMemoryAllocator.git)
  Used when enable `VULKAN_BACKEND` for internal memory management

### CMake options

| CMake Option         | Default Value | Description                                                                                                                                                                            |
| -------------------- | ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **ENABLE_LOG**       | ON            | Enable logging. If turn off the [spdlog](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog.git) is no longer needed.                                                                                    |
| **VULKAN_BACKEND**   | OFF           | Enable [Vulkan](https://www.vulkan.org/) backend. If turn on, the [VulkanMemoryAllocator](https://github.com/GPUOpen-LibrariesAndSDKs/VulkanMemoryAllocator.git) dependence is needed. |
| **OPENGL_BACKEND**   | ON            | Enable [OpenGL](https://www.opengl.org) backend                                                                                                                                        |
| **BUILD_SVG_MODULE** | ON            | Build SVG module. If turn off the [pugixml](https://github.com/zeux/pugixml.git) is no longer needed.                                                                                  |
| **BUILD_EXAMPLE**    | ON            | Build [example code](./example/). Need [GLFW](https://www.glfw.org/) .                                                                                                                 |
| **BUILD_TEST**       | ON            | Build [test code](./test)                                                                                                                                                              |

## Current status:

- Fill (stencil, even-odd supported)

- Stroke (done)

- Clip (stencil)

- Font (basic drawing api)

  - draw simple text, no glyph cache, no text layout

- Line caps and joins (done)

- PathEffect dash

  - implement a simple discrete path effect
  - implement a path measure algorithm and dash path effect

- Image (in progress)

  - Cocec interface
  - png image decode (need install [libpng](http://www.libpng.org/pub/png/libpng.html))
  - jpg image decode (need install [libjpeg-turbo](https://www.libjpeg-turbo.org/))

- SVG (done)

  - basic svg tag parser
    - `<svg>` `<g>` `<path>` `<circle>` `<rect>`

- Maskfilter (done with Blur effect filter)
  - Gaussian Blur with inner and outer effect
    - OpenGL backend
      - Using FBO and off screen rendering to do blur calculation
    - Vulkan backend
      - Use compute shader to do blur calculation

## Reference

- [GPU-accelerated Path Rendering](./resources/gpupathrender.pdf)
- [Resolution Independent Curve Rendering using Programmable Graphics Hardware](./resources/p1000-loop.pdf)

## TODO

- [x] Vulkan backend support (Experimental done)

- [x] Support mask filters like [SkMaskFilter](https://api.skia.org/classSkMaskFilter.html)

- [x] Use [Geometry Shader]() if possible to optimize GPU raster

- [ ] CPU backend support (planning)

- [ ] Support [lottie](https://airbnb.design/lottie/) anmiation.

Commit message:

README: add comment for M1 Mac build

README.md, after:

# Skity

`Skity` is an open-source 2D graphics library written in `c++` using [OpenGL](https://www.opengl.org) and [Vulkan (Experimental)](https://www.vulkan.org/) as backend.
Its **API** follows the same pattern as [Skia](https://skia.org/) and implements the rendering by myself. <br/>

![MacOS|build](https://github.com/RuiwenTang/Skity/actions/workflows/macos.yml/badge.svg)
![Windows|build](https://github.com/RuiwenTang/Skity/actions/workflows/windows.yml/badge.svg)
![Android|build](https://github.com/RuiwenTang/Skity/actions/workflows/android.yml/badge.svg)
[![CodeFactor](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/ruiwentang/skity/badge)](https://www.codefactor.io/repository/github/ruiwentang/skity)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

## Screen Shots

| [Just like nanovg](./example/frame_example.cc)       | [SVG render](./example/svg_example.cc)          | [Basic Example](./example/example.cc)             | [Android Porting](https://github.com/RuiwenTang/Skity-Android)                                                                   |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="./resources/nanovg_demo.png" width="200" > | <img src="./resources/tiger.png" width="150" /> | <img src="./resources/skia_demo.png" width="180"> | <img src="https://github.com/RuiwenTang/Skity-Android/blob/main/screen_shots/gl_frame_example_android.png?raw=true" width="200"> |

| [Blur filter example](./example/filter_example.cc)       | [NanoGUI Porting](https://github.com/RuiwenTang/nanogui) |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img src="./resources/filter_example.png" width="180" /> | <img src="./resources/nanogui_demo.gif" width="200" />   |

## Quick Start

### Build and Install

#### Option A: Build from source

##### Requirements

- CMake
- [Freetype](https://www.freetype.org/): If not present, font rendering will not working
- [GLFW](https://www.glfw.org/): for build test and example
- optional
  - [libpng](http://www.libpng.org/pub/png/libpng.html): for png file decode
  - [libjpeg-turbo](https://www.libjpeg-turbo.org/): for jpg file decode
  - on windows ,need to set environment value: `JPEG_PREFIX=path to libjpeg installed directory`

```shell
# fetch sources from github
git clone --recursive https://github.com/RuiwenTang/Skity.git
cd Skity
# Create build directory
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..

# If build source in M1 Mac please append -DPNG_ARM_NEON=on in cmake argument list to prevent libpng compile error
# cmake ../ -DPNG_ARM_NEON=ON

make
make install
```

#### Option B: Using [`vcpkg`](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg)

The port config is located in [vcpkg-skity](https://github.com/RuiwenTang/vcpkg-skity).

##### Using [manifest mode](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg/blob/master/docs/users/manifests.md)

Add the following registry info to vcpkg-configuration.json as a git [registry](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg/blob/master/docs/users/registries.md):

```
{
  "default-registry": {
      "kind": "git",
      "repository": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg.git",
      "baseline": "82e03905f54fc49d11346e5148e3860747604d86"
  },
  "registries": [
    {
      "kind": "git",
      "repository": "https://github.com/RuiwenTang/vcpkg-skity.git",
      "baseline": "8223a29413aaa1869e6d106d341eaf90ddf7ca47",
      "packages": [ "skity" ]
    }
  ]
}
```

And then add `skity` to vcpkg.json as a dependency:

```
{
  "name": "my-application",
  "version-string": "0.1.0",
  "dependencies": [
    "skity"
  ]
}
```

##### Using overlay-ports

Clone [vcpkg-skity repo](https://github.com/RuiwenTang/vcpkg-skity) and pass a [port-overlay](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg/blob/master/docs/specifications/ports-overlay.md) to vcpkg:

```
vcpkg install skity --overlay-ports=/path/to/vcpkg-skity/ports/skity
```

#### Linking in CMake

In CMakeLists.txt, find and link skity:

```
find_package(skity CONFIG REQUIRED)
target_link_library(main skity::skity)
```

### Initialization

The code below shows how to create a `skity::Canvas` instance using [GLFW](https://www.glfw.org/) with OpenGL backend. The full code can look at [gl_app.cc](./example/gl/gl_app.cc)

```c++
GLFWwindow* window = glfwCreateWindow(800, 600, "Demo", nullptr, nullptr);

int32_t pp_width, pp_height;
glfwGetFramebufferSize(window_, &pp_width, &pp_height);

float density = (float)(pp_width * pp_width + pp_height * pp_height) /
                  (float)(800 * 800 + 600 * 600);

skity::GPUContext ctx{skity::GPUBackendType::kOpenGL, (void*) glfwGetProcAddress};

auto canvas = skity::Canvas::MakeHardwareAccelationCanvas(800, 600, density, &ctx);
```

### Drawing Path

```c++
// paint controls the color and style when geometry is rendered
skity::Paint paint;
paint.setStyle(skity::Paint::kFill_Style);
paint.setColor(skity::ColorSetRGB(0x42, 0x85, 0xF4));

// create path
skity::Path path;
path.moveTo(199, 34);
path.lineTo(253, 143);
path.lineTo(374, 160);
path.lineTo(287, 244);
path.lineTo(307, 365);
path.lineTo(199, 309);
path.lineTo(97, 365);
path.lineTo(112, 245);
path.lineTo(26, 161);
path.lineTo(146, 143);
path.close();

canvas->drawPath(path, paint);
```

The code generates the following result:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/RuiwenTang/Skity/blob/gh-pages/images/fill_star.png?raw=true" width="300" />
</p>

### Blur Effect

By using [`MaskFilter`](./include/skity/effect/mask_filter.hpp), can make some **Post-processing** effect, currently only support [Blur](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blur) effect.

```c++
paint.setMaskFilter(
      skity::MaskFilter::MakeBlur(skity::BlurStyle::kNormal, 10.f));

canvas->drawPath(path /* previouse created star path */, paint);

```

<p align="center">
  <img src="./resources/blur_star.png"  width="300"/>
</p>

## Build

### Third party dependencies

- [glad](https://glad.dav1d.de/)
  Uesd in example for OpenGL context creation
- [glm](https://github.com/g-truc/glm.git)
  Used in this library for all geometric mathematical claculations
- [gtest](https://github.com/google/googletest.git)
  Used in test for some unit test only used when build for debug
- [pugixml](https://github.com/zeux/pugixml.git)
  Used in this library for xml parse when drawing svg image.
- [spdlog](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog.git)
  Used in this library for logging. (Optional can trun off by setting `ENABLE_LOG=OFF`)
- [VulkanMemoryAllocator](https://github.com/GPUOpen-LibrariesAndSDKs/VulkanMemoryAllocator.git)
  Used when enable `VULKAN_BACKEND` for internal memory management

### CMake options

| CMake Option         | Default Value | Description                                                                                                                                                                            |
| -------------------- | ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **ENABLE_LOG**       | ON            | Enable logging. If turn off the [spdlog](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog.git) is no longer needed.                                                                                    |
| **VULKAN_BACKEND**   | OFF           | Enable [Vulkan](https://www.vulkan.org/) backend. If turn on, the [VulkanMemoryAllocator](https://github.com/GPUOpen-LibrariesAndSDKs/VulkanMemoryAllocator.git) dependence is needed. |
| **OPENGL_BACKEND**   | ON            | Enable [OpenGL](https://www.opengl.org) backend                                                                                                                                        |
| **BUILD_SVG_MODULE** | ON            | Build SVG module. If turn off the [pugixml](https://github.com/zeux/pugixml.git) is no longer needed.                                                                                  |
| **BUILD_EXAMPLE**    | ON            | Build [example code](./example/). Need [GLFW](https://www.glfw.org/) .                                                                                                                 |
| **BUILD_TEST**       | ON            | Build [test code](./test)                                                                                                                                                              |

## Current status:

- Fill (stencil, even-odd supported)

- Stroke (done)

- Clip (stencil)

- Font (basic drawing api)

  - draw simple text, no glyph cache, no text layout

- Line caps and joins (done)

- PathEffect dash

  - implement a simple discrete path effect
  - implement a path measure algorithm and dash path effect

- Image (in progress)

  - Cocec interface
  - png image decode (need install [libpng](http://www.libpng.org/pub/png/libpng.html))
  - jpg image decode (need install [libjpeg-turbo](https://www.libjpeg-turbo.org/))

- SVG (done)

  - basic svg tag parser
    - `<svg>` `<g>` `<path>` `<circle>` `<rect>`

- Maskfilter (done with Blur effect filter)
  - Gaussian Blur with inner and outer effect
    - OpenGL backend
      - Using FBO and off screen rendering to do blur calculation
    - Vulkan backend
      - Use compute shader to do blur calculation

## Reference

- [GPU-accelerated Path Rendering](./resources/gpupathrender.pdf)
- [Resolution Independent Curve Rendering using Programmable Graphics Hardware](./resources/p1000-loop.pdf)

## TODO

- [x] Vulkan backend support (Experimental done)

- [x] Support mask filters like [SkMaskFilter](https://api.skia.org/classSkMaskFilter.html)

- [x] Use [Geometry Shader]() if possible to optimize GPU raster

- [ ] CPU backend support (planning)

- [ ] Support [lottie](https://airbnb.design/lottie/) anmiation.
